+++
date = "2016-04-26T06:49:28+08:00"
draft = false
title = "Why am I blogging?"

+++

As this is the first post, I thought that I would take some time to lay out my motivations for starting a blog.

1. A lawyer argued for it (well, kinda)  
   Mike Cernovich runs several websites, and in [a post on one of them](http://www.dangerandplay.com/2014/11/25/name/), he advises the reader to claim ownership over his/her name in cyberspace. This allows me to have some measure of control over what gets shown about me on Google search result pages.
2. Because I can, and I have  
   Rick Warren [gave a TED talk](https://www.ted.com/talks/rick_warren_on_a_life_of_purpose?language=en) in which he said that a person has three things in his hand: Income, influence, and identity. What's in my hand? It's a laptop. I can become a blogger. I can influence people with what I write, as unimaginable as it sounds right now.
3. I want to practise writing  
   One of my dreams from childhood is to write. I wanted to write to entertain. I wanted to craft expressions. I wanted to keep myself company, and in a weird way, I had accomplished that through writing. When I was a child I used to spend time at my grandparents' place, and once, my uncle gave me a piece of paper and a pencil to occupy me. 'Write a story,' he said. So I did. I wrote a story about life on another planet, as far as I can recall. And I was a little perplexed that he had no comments nor reaction after reading it. Now, adult me seems to be struggling with grammar and smoothness of expression. Hopefully, blogging would get me into a habit of writing and ameliorate the afore-mentioned problems.

That's it for the first post. Stay tuned!
